= 0.7.1 (2010-08-19)

* Rails fixes for form_for called from erb templates

= 0.7.0

* Sinatra 1.0 support
* Full Tilt 1.0+ support, including "yield" support for layouts

= 0.6.10

* Rails fixes for form_for + content_for

= 0.6.9

* Bug fix for url_for.  Previously, you'd need to capture { *_path } instead of
  using the named route directly.  Only affected rails 2.3.4+.

= 0.6.8 (2010-06-03)

* Add a regression for issue Github #17 (for judofyr / Camping)

= 0.6.7 (2010-06-02)

* Add rails support for 2.3.5 - 2.3.8
* Improved rails documentation

= 0.6.6 (2010-06-01)

* ruby 1.9.1 support.  Closes Github Issues #10 & #11.
* Removed Tilt deprecation warnings

= 0.6.4

* Fixed a bug in which direct string values to Markaby::Builder wouldn't evaluate:
    Markaby::Builder.new { 'foo' }.to_s #=> "foo"

* Fix critical bug with form_for, which was raising an error
* Introduce proxy object for form_for:

    form_for :foo do |f|
      f.text_field :bar
      f.text_field :baz
    end

* Remove support for rails 2.1.x series.  We'll accept patches for them, if anyone cares enough.

== 0.6.2 / 0.6.3

* Add basic support for the Tilt templating engine (used with Sinatra):

  require 'markaby'
  require 'markaby/tilt'

== 0.6.1

* Support the following rails versions:
    1.2.2, 1.2.3, 1.2.4, 1.2.5, 1.2.6, 2.1.0, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.2.0,
    2.2.1, 2.2.2, 2.2.3, 2.3.1, 2.3.2, 2.3.2.1, 2.3.3, 2.3.3.1, 2.3.4
* Only run rails tests when inside a rails plugins
* Run tests of the various versions of rails with garlic
* Start conversion to rspec.  Use test/spec temporarily until conversion is done.

= 0.6
=== 23 August, 2009

* Canonical repo changed to http://github.com/joho/markaby
* Gem moved to Github (using jeweler)
* Rails init process changed to work with rails > 2.1
* Default attributes on the root (<html>) element can now be overidden
* Reworked CssProxy, allowing attributes on hr and br
* Added Kernel#mab convenience method (require 'markaby/kernel_method')
* WhenOnRails: Can now use :locals with render_markaby
* WhenOnRails: Template errors now report line number

= 0.5
=== 03 October, 2006

* XHTML Validation built in.  So, if you have an invalid tag: error.  Invalid attribute: error.
  And two identical IDs in the same document: error.  Optional, of course.  But handy!
* New Markaby::Fragment class adds much flexibility.  If it discovers you are using a tag as a string,
  the tag is removed from the stream.  (<tt>div { strong("Real") + " Giraffes" }</tt>)
* The prevailing rule now is: if you want it escaped, pass it as an arg.  If not, pass it to a block.
* Again, escaped: <tt>h1("Me & You Have a Giraffe")</tt>
* And, not escaped: <tt>h1 { "<a href='/'>Home</a>" }</tt>
* Less method_missing, meaning: faster calls all around.  Tag methods generated based on doctype.
* The <tt>html</tt> method doesn't write the doctype tags and meta tags.  You must use <tt>xhtml_transitional</tt> or <tt>xhtml_strict</tt> methods to do that.
* The <tt>img</tt> method doesn't try to inject an empty alt tag and a zero border.  No more of that.

= 0.3
=== 02nd February, 2006

* Allow Markaby::Builder.new without args.
* Rails helper method render_markaby.

= 0.2
=== 17th January, 2006

* Public announcement.
* DOCTYPES, head tags.
* Works with Rails helpers.

= 0.1
=== 05th January, 2006

* Initial import.
